Describe Date Range Parameters (#31)
serge-andreyev/dotnet-eud: interface-elements-for-desktop/articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/shape-report-data/use-report-parameters/parameters-overview.md

This invokes the **Add New Parameter** dialog where you can configure the created parameter.

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-parameters-add-new-parameter-dialog.png)

The dialog provides the following options:

* **Name**  
	Specifies the unique name by which you can refer to the parameter.
* **Description**  
	Specifies the text that appears in Print Preview alongside with the value editor.
* **Type**  
	Specifies the parameter's value type. A value editor for the specified type is displayed in Print Preview.
* **Default value**  
	Specifies the parameter's **Value**. When you change a parameter's value in Print Preview, you can press **Reset** to return to the default value.

	![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-parameters-reset-parameter-value.png)

* **Expression**  
	Specifies an [expression](../../use-expressions.md) that defines the parameter's value based on specific conditions. Click the **Expression** property's ellipsis button and construct an expression in the invoked **Expression Editor**.

	![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-parameters-construct-expression.png)

* **Show in the parameters panel** (corresponds to the parameter's **Visible** property)  

> 	Enable this option to request the parameter value in Print Preview. Otherwise, the report assumes the default parameter value.

Reviewer: "the report assumes" Why 'assumes'?

Author: Changed to "takes"

* **Allow multiple values** (corresponds to the parameter's **Multi-Value** property)  
	Enable this option to allow a parameter to accept a [collection of values](create-multi-value-and-cascading-parameters.md).
* **Allow null value** (corresponds to the parameter's **Allow Null** property)  
	Enable this option if the parameter's value can be unspecified.
* **Range Value**  

> 	Enable this option if the parameter should specify a range with a start value and an end value. This option applies to _Date_-type parameters. See [Date Range Parameters](date-range-parameters.md) for information on how to configure a date range parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Enable this option if the parameter should specify a range with a start and end value. This option applies to _Date_-type parameters. See [Date Range Parameters](date-range-parameters.md) for information on how to configure a date range parameter.
```

Author: Ok

* **Supports the collection of standard values**  

> 	Applies if the parameter is visible (its value is requested in Print Preview). You can choose a value from a predefined list. You can populate this list with static values, or specify a data source from where the values are obtained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Applies if the parameter is visible (its value is requested in Print Preview). You can choose a value from a predefined list which is populated with static values, or specify a data source from where the values are obtained.
```

	* **Dynamic values**

> 		Specify a data source, data adapter and data member for the parameter values storage. **Value Member** defines a data field that provides values to the parameter. **Display Member** defines a data field that stores values displayed in Print Preview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		Specify a data source, data adapter, and data member for the parameter values storage. **Value Member** defines the data field that provides the parameter's values. **Display Member** defines the data field that stores values displayed in Print Preview.
```

		
		![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-parameters-dynamic-values.png)
		

> 		The specified data member's value type should match the specified parameter type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		The data member's value type should match the parameter type.
```

Author: I'm getting rid of the word 'should'. So I changed that to:
If the data member's value type does not match the parameter type, the validation rejects the value.

		
		Use the **Filter String** property to filter parameter values and implement [cascading parameters](create-multi-value-and-cascading-parameters.md).

		Specify the **Sort Member** and **Sort Order** properties to sort parameter values.
		
	* **Static values**
		
		Switch to this tab to specify a static list of values. Each value should have a description that is displayed in Print Preview.
		
		![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-parameters-static-values.png)

## Use Parameters

> Report parameters pass data to a report before it is generated in Print Preview. You can specify parameter values.

Reviewer: "You can specify parameter value" This is out of context.

Author: Changed

> Report parameters pass data to a report before it is generated in Print Preview. You can specify these parameter's values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Report parameters pass data to a report before it is generated in Print Preview. You can specify these parameter values.
```

Use report parameters in the following cases:

* **Filter**

	Parameters can provide values to a report's **Filter String** to [filter report data](../filter-data/filter-data-at-the-report-level.md).

	![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-parameters-in-filter-string.png)

	You can link the report parameter to [query parameters](use-query-parameters.md) used in the SQL string's SELECT statement to [filter data at the data source level](../filter-data/filter-data-at-the-data-source-level.md).

* **Bind to Data**
	
	You can bind a report control to a parameter and display its value in a report. To create a new [label](../../use-report-elements/use-basic-report-controls/label.md) bound to a parameter, drag the parameter from the [Field List](../../report-designer-tools/ui-panels/field-list.md) and drop it onto a band.
	
	![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-parameters-for-data-binding.png)
	

> 	You can refer to a parameter in [mail merge](../../bind-to-data/use-embedded-fields-mail-merge.md). Add a question mark in front of the parameter's name.

Reviewer: You can... You can... You can... You can... You are creating a pattern here.

Reviewer: These sentences can be combined.

Author: Ok

	![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-mailmerge-parameters.png)

* **Specify Expressions**
    

>     You can include parameters into [expressions](../../use-expressions.md). Use a question mark (?) in front of a parameter's name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use a question mark (?) in front of a parameter's name to include it in an [expression](../../use-expressions.md).
```
